# Helm Operator and Flux

[[toc]]

Helm Operator is a kubernetes operator that is built around the Helm tool to release charts to Kuberenetes cluster without using the `helm` command.

The essential mechanism is this: the declaration of a `HelmRelease` is represented by a custom resource, specifying the chart and its values. Flux will apply it to the cluster, and once it's in the cluster, the Helm Operator will make sure the release exists by installing or upgrading it.

## The HelmRelease custom resource

Each release of a chart is declared by a `HelmRelease` resource. The schema for these resources is given in the [custom resource definition](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluxcd/flux/helm-0.10.1/deploy-helm/flux-helm-release-crd.yaml). They look like this:

```
---
apiVersion: flux.weave.works/v1beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: rabbit
  namespace: default
spec:
  releaseName: rabbitmq
  chart:
    repository: https://kubernetes-charts.storage.googleapis.com/
    name: rabbitmq
    version: 3.3.6
  values:
    replicas: 1
```

The `releaseName` will be given to Helm as the release name. If not supplied, it will be generated by affixing the namespace to the resource name. In the above example, if releaseName were not given, it would be generated as `default-rabbitmq`. Because of the way Helm works, release names must be unique in the cluster.

The `chart` section gives a pointer to the chart; in this case, to a chart in a Helm repo. Since the helm operator is running in your cluster, and doesn't have access to local configuration, the repository is given as a URL rather than an alias (the URL in the example is what's usually aliased as `stable`). The `name` and `version` specify the chart to release.

The `values` section is where you provide the value overrides for the chart. This is as you would put in a `values.yaml` file, but inlined into the structure of the resource.


## Stakater HelmRelease Workflow

Repositories contain yaml files of kind `HelmRelease` like mentioned in the above section. Charts are pulled by their `name` and `version` form the repositories referenced from the URL mentioned in the `repository` field. Values are passed in the `values` section which overrides the values from the charts pulled. `kubectl` command applies the `HelmRelease` resource. When the Helm Operator sees a `HelmRelease` resource in the cluster, it either installs or upgrades the named Helm release so that the chart is released as specified. It will also notice when a HelmRelease resource is updated, and take action accordingly.