# Introduction

Alerting is one of the components of DevOps that allows stakeholders to easily observe important system events. Alerting is indispensable for modern DevOps teams due to the needs of continuous deployment of multiple applications composed of microservices. Alerting helps with reliability by informing us about the system at important states. That way we have confidence by having insight into the exact state of the system, and knowing when there are any issues that might be occurring, or could be imminent. Alerting systems can be configured to notify at the occurrence of specific system events (e.g. service down), or when thresholds of certain metrics are reached (e.g. 80% memory consumed). And notifications of such events can be connected various channels such as email, Instant Message, or even Text message on phones.

Thresholds can be set to not only indicate the occurrence of an issue with the system, but rather also proactively indicate that the system might be headed towards an issue. Alerting on such thresholds may give the stakeholders adequate indication and time to monitor the system more closely and even start some mitigation activities that will lower the probability of issue occurrence. The exact thresholds for alerting will no doubt have to be thought out, as having low thresholds that are reached frequently but have little impact, will lead to very noisy alerting; i.e. We will receive frequent alerts for events that do not require immediate attention. On the other hand if the thresholds are too high, we may not receive alerts until the issue has already occurred, or it is too late to mitigate in any way. The monitoring data will of course all be there in the required fine-grained detail to allow for effective root cause analysis, but the alerts should only be triggered within the sweet-spot of the threshold range that actually warrant attention from human stakeholders.